An adoption reunion registry is a formal mechanism where adoptees and their birth family members can be reunited . Registries may be free or charge fees , be facilitated by non - profit organizations , government agencies or private businesses . Generally , such adoption registries exist only in countries which practiced closed adoption , i.e. adoption in which the full identities of the birth parents , birth family members and the adopting family are not readily disclosed . Some reunion registries are based on mutual consent and do matches from the information provided by the registrants . Others , run by governmental agencies , have access to the original documents identifying a birth family or adopting family . This is a form of adoption disclosure . In general , adoptees must be adults before they may be given identifying information , or at least age 18 . In the United States , state law governs whether such an institution may release this identifying information to the interested party . Some states have an adoption registry , in which both the adopted adult and birthparent must register before information will be provided . In other states , if the adoptee requests information , the organization will contact the birth parent and request consent for a reunion . In Canada , adult adoptees from British Columbia , Newfoundland , and Ontario generally have access to their own birth and adoption information provided no disclosure veto has been filed . In other provinces / territories , limited access to information is allowed ; all jurisdictions have some form of reunion register . In the United Kingdom , adoption law has been amended to allow for open adoptions , the right to access one 's records , and a state - run adoption reunion registry has been established . Though many such registries are operated by government agencies , many private registries do exist , and can be found on the Web . These tend to be owned and/or managed by members of the adoption community and are generally more successful than government - run registries . The largest such organization is the International Soundex Reunion Registry , Inc. , ( ISRR ) founded in 1975 . A problem generally with state - run registries has been the lack of publicity surrounding them . In contrast , in April 2005 , the state - run National Adoption Contact Preference Register was launched in Ireland with a national radio and newspaper advertising campaign , and included an application form for the registry being delivered to every household . The Irish registry allows a person using it to specify whether or not they want contact and/or reunion , what form that contact should take ( e.g. , letter , phone , e - mail ) , and , if they do not want contact at the time being , still allows for the passing of medical and/or background information to the other party .