Ali Charaf Damache is a citizen of Algeria and Ireland who was the first suspected terrorist to be extradited to the USA during the Donald Trump presidency . He is alleged to have been the ringleader of a cell tasked with killing Lars Vilks , a Swedish artist , some Muslims accused of blasphemy for having drawn the Islamic prophet Muhammad in a cartoon . Although he was born in Algeria , he grew up in France . In 2009 , Damache married Jamie Paulin Ramirez , an American convert to Islam he met online , through a dating site for American Muslims . Ramirez would go by the nickname " Jihad Jamie " , and would eventually receive an 8-year sentence for playing a role in the plot to kill Vilks . Ramirez and Colleen LaRose , another American convert to Islam , traveled to Ireland to participate in the murder plot . Ramirez and Damache we d the day she arrived in Ireland . Both Ramirez and Damache were blonde , with blue eyes . Commentators would assert that Damache and his colleagues sought out blonde - haired , blue - eyed converts because , once radicalized , they would find it easy to cross borders without suspicion . Law enforcement officials in Ireland arrested Damache and six other individuals , in Ireland , in 2010 , after learning of the plot against Vilks . LaRose , who went by the nickname " Jihad Jane " , is reported to have tipped off authorities herself , after she grew disenchanted with Damache . While he had impressed her , online , she was disappointed after meeting him in person , and seeing he had trouble paying his bills . LaRose returned to the USA , where she pled guilty and received a ten - year sentence . Damache was only charged with sending a threatening text message . Ireland considered , and rejected , an extradition request from the USA . Spain arrested Damache , in December 2015 , at the request of the USA . The USA had charged Damache with trying to recruit others to terrorism , and leading the cell that included LaRose . The USA announced they had received Damache on July 21 , 2017 .