Allan Octavian Hume , CB ICS ( 6 June 1829 – 31 July 1912 ) was a member of the Imperial Civil Service ( later the Indian Civil Service ) , a political reformer , ornithologist and botanist who worked in British India . He was one of the founders of the Indian National Congress , a political party that was later to lead in the Indian independence movement . A notable ornithologist , Hume has been called " the Father of Indian Ornithology " and , by those who found him dogmatic , " the Pope of Indian ornithology " . As an administrator of Etawah , he saw the Indian Rebellion of 1857 as a result of misgovernance and made great efforts to improve the lives of the common people . The district of Etawah was among the first to be returned to normality and over the next few years Hume 's reforms led to the district being considered a model of development . Hume rose in the ranks of the Indian Civil Service but like his father Joseph Hume , the radical MP , he was bold and outspoken in questioning British policies in India . He rose in 1871 to the position of secretary to the Department of Revenue , Agriculture , and Commerce under Lord Mayo . His criticism of Lord Lytton however led to his removal from the Secretariat in 1879 . He founded the journal Stray Feathers in which he and his subscribers recorded notes on birds from across India . He built up a vast collection of bird specimens at his home in Shimla by making collection expeditions and obtaining specimens through his network of correspondents . Following the loss of manuscripts that he had long been maintaining in the hope of producing a magnum opus on the birds of India , he abandoned ornithology and gave his collection to the Natural History Museum in London , where it continues to be the single largest collection of Indian bird skins . He was briefly a follower of the theosophical movement founded by Madame Blavatsky . He left India in 1894 to live in London from where he continued to take an interest in the Indian National Congress , apart from taking an interest in botany and founding the South London Botanical Institute towards the end of his life .