Animositisomina is the eighth studio album by industrial metal band Ministry , released in 2003 . It is the group 's first studio album and second overall release through Sanctuary Records , following the live album Sphinctour . The title is a palindrome , made of the word " animosity " spelled without the final letter and both forward and backward . It is also very similar to Aoxomoxoa , which is an album by the Grateful Dead . According to an interview on Fuse 's Uranium , Jourgensen was bored at the time he was coming up with an album title . It is also worth noting that it is Ministry 's first album to feature lyrics in the album sleeve , in which prior albums did not provide . " The Light Pours Out of Me " was written and originally recorded by Magazine for their Real Life album in 1978 and it is the only song in the album to have more than one word in the title . Ministry did perform the song several times in concerts in the late 1980s , but it was never released or recorded officially . Animositisomina is notable for being the last album with Paul Barker , thus bringing the band 's " Hypo Luxa / Hermes Pan " production duo to an unceremonious end . In addition , it is also the last album to feature Ministry performing in their traditional industrial metal style before switching to a more thrash - oriented sound on their next album , Houses of the Molé . In April 2016 , Jourgensen revealed Animositisomina to be his least - favourite Ministry album ( ignoring the band 's first synthpop album With Sympathy ) , declaring it was " not fun to make " as he was forced to quit his heroin habits during the recording sessions . On top of that , he and Barker were not on good terms anymore , which prompted the latter to leave the band after the Animositisomina tour . " Leper , " the last song on the album , was left as an instrumental as Jourgensen had left the studio earlier than scheduled and did not care to write any lyrics . Al considers Animositisomina a " non - album " and left most of the recording responsibilities to Barker .